the mandalorian bad writing
bad acting bad show i realize
how unwelcome this critique this
commentary will be
i realize that a great many of you will
hit the thumbs down button
and close the window on your computer
before you even heard
two or three minutes of what i have to
say so
judiciously i'm opening the video
by discussing the action sequences and
the action
sequences matter even if this tv show
were
supremely philosophically
stimulating if it had the most
impressive
intellectual content imaginable or we've
had the greatest emotional
gravitas imaginable in the
characterization of writing the plot
the action sequences would still matter
can i ask you in the audience those of
you who are inclined to hit thumbs down
and close the window can i ask you to
recognize that
objectively the action sequences are
terrible
objectively the hand-to-hand combat
would not measure up to a hong kong
kung fu movie made in the 1970s
i would make the further claim that
these action sequences don't even work
as well
as the batman tv show
from the 1960s consider very briefly the
three images i have on screen here
the female mandalorian shimmies down
the side of the spaceship she's like a
little kid going tobogganing
she slides down behind this armed guard
who is an adult male
in full armor now they chose to cast a
relatively small man
so that he's not towering over this
diminutive woman they must have
intentionally cast someone
who'd look about the same size and what
does she do
she doesn't pounce down on this guy she
doesn't land on him
with her full body weight having been
above him she doesn't shoot down at him
she doesn't land on him with a spear
there are a million ways to block this
scene she doesn't do something
clever showing that she's aware of the
weak points in his armor that she's
aware of
some subtle way no no no she
shimmies on down and then stands there
toe-to-toe with this guy
she slams her petite feminine
forearm down on the two hands
that he's holding a rifle with look at
that frame one
and he throws the rifle away it doesn't
make any sense kinetically it doesn't
make any sense
it does not look like a smaller weaker
person
disarming a larger stronger person
who is wearing armor you can you can try
this out in the living room
guys have your girlfriend strike
your two hands holding a rifle with with
the fleshy
soft part of her forearm with this
motion she's not she's not throwing her
full body weight forward nope
there's nothing behind it there's no
force there on the stormtrooper just
throws his gun away then what's her next
move she
twists around this is like a disco move
and she strikes him with her elbow her
elbow is not
armored whereas his chest is she places
her cloth clad elbow
her soft fleshy elbow down on the the
breastplate down in the middle of his
chest
and that just wipes out this fully grown
adult
man heavily armed with military training
that is the
end of the fight it's over ko
one elbow to the center of the chest
armored chest the middle
what is this armor made of how is it
possible that there's this amazingly
fragile
soldier on duty here and even so
haven't we lost a chance here to
characterize
the hero the person we're supposed to be
sympathizing with this mandalorian and
blue orange haven't we missed a chance
to show that they're clever they're
extraordinary they're strong
to show us how they overcome
amazing odds how is it that they do the
impossible and the answer is
they just do the impossible because of
plot armor because of bad writing
[Music]
i want to be clear that i'm not
contrasting
realism to a lack of realism
you could have a dreamlike surreal
universe
in which these things make sense the
role of the storyteller
is to make that compelling to the
audience you could tell me
that this woman is so supernaturally
strong
that she's completely self-confident
walking into a heavily fortified
military installation
and with her bare hands punching out
everyone you can sell that to the
audience
you can make that a compelling part of
her characterization
and then the actor can perform that role
accordingly or
or you can represent this person
as vulnerable as desperate
as trying to save her homeworld as
trying to overthrow
a military regime with just two or three
of her friends
where she can't possibly win and then
you can show us
how it is out of that desperation out of
whatever
intellectual resources she has she comes
up with
a brilliant scheme a strategy something
that makes us cheer for her as the
underdog there are
all of these possibilities and more
but what we're being presented with here
is none of them what we're being
presented with
simply is bad writing so this is not a
plea
for realism the approach doesn't have to
be
realistic but in a sense there has to be
an approach is season two episode three
the first act three out of these four
characters
in armor became fully submerged in water
in the scene they dove into the ocean
they're dry they come out of the water
and they're they're not even dripping
wet most of the armor
you can see is cloth look at that
they're basically wearing like a you
know
cloth military uniform underneath these
few pieces of of plated armor
right the mandalorian himself has a cape
on
the cape is bone dry on the bottom left
corner of the screen you see that
none of them are dripping wet this is
worse than
xena warrior princess
if xena jumps into the ocean if xena
jumps into a lake she comes out
wet and it's not just that this is a
poorly blocked
action sequence it's not just a
continuity error which of course in part
it is in terms of characterization
story plot and the more meaningful
sub-basement of what it is we're
witnessing here
how are we supposed to imagine these
people as anything more
than video game characters if they just
materialize out of thin air
in the middle of the ocean were these
characters
living in a cave in poverty
were they hunted and persecuted were
they living
in opulence and wealth because one of
these characters bokotan is
basically like a kind of aristocrat are
they living like aristocrats in exile
are they friends with the local
government are we supposed to imagine
that these are people enduring terrible
hardship
who now have resolved to risk their
lives taking on an impossible task just
these three people
who seemingly have no equipment and no
great
fortune behind them these three people
are gonna conquer an army
and and conquer a planet they're gonna
change the not just one world but the
fate of many worlds
where does this confidence come from are
they lunatics should we regard them as
eccentric or insane
how are we in the audience supposed to
feel about them when they just
materialize out of thin air
dive into the water come up dry and then
both in terms of the script and acting
there's just a
total lack of in that sense
characterization
behind them are these supposed to be
characters that are in their own
universe
the equivalent of the una bomber if you
forgot who the unabomber was
he was a terrorist who basic people
would say he lived in a cave he actually
lived in a small
shack in the middle of the forest are
these madmen
on the fringes of society claiming that
they're going to do the impossible and
should we regard
what they're saying is possible or are
these characters
like superman out of the comic books
where for whatever reason
they are just in their own physical
bodies so extraordinarily powerful
that it's entirely reasonable for them
to think that they can
unassisted take out a whole army unit
this kind of question of what are we
supposed to believe
about these characters what is the
meaning and significance of their plot
it is tightly woven into
the way the action sequences are blocked
so the fact that the action sequences
are garbage
is in a meaningful way connected to
the bad writing and bad acting that
makes this
a bad show
[Music]
um
having made my case for the close
relationship between the action
sequences
and any kind of political or
philosophical
meaning in this plot i think it'll be
much
much easier for me to convince you that
there's a similar relationship
between world building and any
political or philosophical significance
to the plot
the primary fact we're introduced to
in this universe from season one episode
one
is that justice is done by private
contractors
by bounty hunters who carry with them
this tiny device that allows them to
find
anyone anywhere we also see
that this universe has police and
prisons
and that in fact the bounty hunters hand
over
apprehended criminals to these police
officers and prisons and yet
everyone in this universe is willing
and eager to commit murder
to commit massacres in broad
daylight with many witnesses and no fear
of the consequences
not even the consequences for their
professional reputation or business
now i am not making a case
for realism i'm not demanding realism
some a filmmaker could create a science
fiction universe
in which everyone just considers it
normal to walk into a bar
and massacre a bunch of people now that
could even
be a kind of politically interesting
science fiction part hey
what if in the future everybody is just
cool
with murder everyone's just cool with
people mask each other
what would that world be like to inhabit
but that's not
the world we're being presented with in
the mandalorian
in this bizarre self-contradictory
internally inconsistent way
we're presented in a universe that not
only has law and order
but where our main character our
protagonist is himself
part of the escutcheon of law and order
he's an enforcer
he's a bounty hunter he we see him
turning people into prison we see him
dealing with the cops
and yet we also see the patrons of a bar
in the very first episode
standing around silently in a state of
total indifference
as one of the bar patrons is going to be
murdered
believe it or not for the the value of
his body parts
on the black market and the bartender is
cool with this
everybody else in the bar is cool with
this in scene after scene
including here where um the heroic
blue armored mandalorians show up and
just massacre
a whole bunch of people on this dock why
because those people in the dock were
daring to complain
that they had already massacred their
friends and relatives on a fishing boat
which apparently they're completely
entitled to do with no consequences
and nobody is going to put out a bounty
and hunt you down
for massacring these guys on a on a duck
no there are no consequences for you
but if anyone else commits a murder or a
crime then the mandalorian himself is
going to carry this tiny portable device
that lets him find any person
located anywhere in the universe
effortlessly
he can find you anywhere on a huge
planet he can find you from one star
system
but nobody can find him when it's
convenient for the plot
anyone can find anyone instantly and
when it's convenient for the plot
nobody can find anyone it is actually
world breaking and the world building
here
it makes no sense it invitates any
possible politically or philosophically
coherent narrative
even if it is one dealing with justice
and injustice and as i've said
our main character however brutal his
history may be which is constantly
alluded to
he is ultimately working in law
enforcement so in closing the video i
just want to say
this does have consequences for me after
the most recent episode of the
mandalorian
i cancelled my subscription i subscribed
to disney plus
in the first place as explained in
earlier video because i'm learning
chinese
and i assumed that when they promised
something like 13 languages
would be provided in both uh translation
and subtitles you know both
dubbed voices and subtitles for every
movie
that i was going to be able to use
disney plus to study and practice
chinese that turned out to not be the
case
i stuck around for a little while
because it seemed to me that season one
of the mandalorian
was setting up some kind of interesting
philosophical statement some kind of
interesting political commentary
maybe too with presenting this person
who's you know trying to live a life
defined in terms of a code a code of
honor and dignity
and it goes around telling people this
is the way it's now
very clear in season two that no
this is episodic trash and in all the
ways that matter
has to be said it's really much much
worse
than tv shows from the past that
we now look back on as kind of childish
like xena warrior princess
[Music]
that's right crawl crawl for your
stinking life
having used the word childish i'll just
remark
i think it would be a really interesting
creative challenge
to make a tv show like this that is
intended for children and again having
just looked at a few clips of xeno
warrior princess now it's kind of
amazing what a high level of violence
was considered appropriate for children
in the recent past it shows her
slitting people's throats and what have
you it would be an interesting creative
challenge
if the writers directors and actors knew
that this was for
children but as with batman superman
spider-man
many many things what they end up
creating here
is something that's neither appropriate
for children
nor sophisticated enough for adults they
end up in this
strange intermediate situation of
producing
a cultural product that can only
possibly appeal to
incredibly childish adults
[Music]
you